# Job-Hunting

This repository houses a collection of diverse technologies all designed to optimize and streamline the job hunting process. 

## Information preprocessing
#### Tool: Desciption_analyzer.py
Introduction: Navigating the thousands of jobs posted every day can be daunting. Determining whether a role is a good fit in mere seconds is challenging. I've created a script to save some of your mental labor for more creative endeavors. 

Function: This script helps to extract crucial information using LLM (GPT-3.5). It determines if you are qualified for a particular role and saves the extracted information as a JSON file for future reference. All you need to do is paste the job description and run the script (An OpenAI API Key is required. On average, $1 will cover 200 uses).
Below is an example output generated by the script:

Example:

{
    "Job Title": "SDE",
    "Level": "senior level",
    "Qualified": "yes",
    "Skills": [
        "web development",
        "APIs",
        "large dataset",
        "cloud deployment",
        "data pipeline",
        "monitoring",
        "CI/CD"
    ],
    "Responsibilities": [
        "Deliver scalable solutions",
        "Implement initiatives",
        "Collaborate with product and engineering partners",
        "Enhance security, performance and user experience",
        "Improve technical quality through code and architecture reviews",
        "Operate large scale data processing workflows"
    ],
    "years of experience required": ["6+ year -- web development"],
    "Company Name": "Adobe",
    "Company Goal": ["Digital experience platform", "Empowering artists and businesses"],
    "Salary Info": {
        "U.S. pay range": "$119,000 -- $232,700 annually",
        "Salary markets": "Differ based on work location and job-related knowledge, skills, and experience",
        "Sales Roles Salary Info": "Total target compensation (TTC = base + commission), incentives are in the form of sales commission plans.",
        "Non-Sales Roles Salary Info": "Starting salaries are expressed as base salary and short-term incentives are in the form of Annual Incentive Plan (AIP).",
        "Long-term Incentives": "Certain roles may be eligible for long-term incentives in the form of a new hire equity award."
    }
}

## How to Use It:
Paste your API Key in place of OPENAI_API_KEY.
Paste the job description after job_description = """.
Run the script.
Information about jobs you're interested in will be saved to the "Consider" folder, while other job information will be saved in the "Other" folder for future reference.

## Don't have an API Key?
If you don't possess an API Key, you can directly use the ChatGPT web application. Simply paste the following content before the job description. This will assist you in extracting crucial information. Please note, however, that this method does not automatically save the results locally.


Paste the following at beginning: 

You are an AI agent to extract useful information from the job description for job huntings. 
Generate a json file using the information you get from "job description". Here are the keys of the output json file, please try to complete the value of each key. Keys: 1. Job Title, 2. Level, 3. Qualified, 4. Skills, 5. Responsibilities, 6.years of experience required, 7.Company Name, 8. Company Goal}

Rules:
Describe the "Job Title" concisely and use alphabet only
Categorize the level of the job into: entry level, mid level, senior level.
Decide if I am not qualified for this job based on the following logic: "If this job for US citizen only, I am not qualified. If the job that do not require a computer science degree, I am not qualified. If the previous conditions are not mentioned, I am qualified. Answer in the json file Qualified part with yes or no. If answer No, give some concise clue within 20 words.
extract all the specific technical skills required in a format of keywords or tags and list them in json file Skill part. List programming languages used firstly in your output if exist, tools used second, and other techs used in the end of your output.
Answer the Company goal part in json file with some tags or key words, your result should try to explain the company type and its main product.
List all years of working experience required in a python list under as the content of "years of experience required" key in json file, make the result consice like ["x year -- field", ...]
Make the output in json format, reply only with the answer in json format, do not include any commentary. 

The following part is the "job description": 








